---
title: "Pete Buttigieg Explains DEI to Regular Folks"
date: 2025-05-04T17:28:15-07:00
draft: false
---


## And I explain to you why DEI is mostly bad

I like Pete Buttigieg; I would likely vote for him if he runs for
president in 2028, but I disagree with him about Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion (DEI).

I'm writing this because I want democrats to stop screwing up so
badly. I think the Republican party has lost it's way, and Democrats
are our only hope. But to quote Jeff Daniels' character from the
series [The
Newsroom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Newsroom_(American_TV_series)),
"You know why people don't like liberals? Cause they lose. If
liberals are so fucking smart, how come they lose so god damn
always?"[^1]

I want Democrats to stop screwing up. How do they screw up?

Well, here, for example, is how Pete Buttigieg Explains DEI to
Regular Folks[^2]

<!--
----------------------------------------------------------------------
-->

## Transcript, Pete Buttigieg speaking

"First of all, DEI stands for diversity, equity, and inclusion, right?"

"So to me we start by thinking okay, what's the opposite of those
things?"

"The opposite of diversity is uniformity, right?"


<!--
----------------------------------------------------------------------
-->

<div class="myreply">

  Uh, no -- not necessarily. First we have to ask what exactly is
  meant by `diversity'? Does diversity in this context mean it's
  somehow better to hire or work with people with different skin
  color, different sexual orientations, different shoe sizes,
  different social-economic backgrounds, different heights, different
  IQs? What's the criteria -- and what makes the criteria relevant --
  for deciding which characteristics are diverse-worthy?


  Context matters.

  When it comes to hiring someone for a job, the opposite of
  diversity might be 'color blind'.

  And in some situations diversity is a weakness, not a strength.

  For example, anyone who has dealt with Customer Support from a
  non-native English speaker knows the importance of clear
  communication. Sometimes I just want to say, "Oh my gosh, please...
  give me more uniformity!"

  The usual and obvious counter example to 'diversity' are the
  players in the NBA (National Basketball Association). 70% of NBA
  players are Black (or African American). Do we need more Asians and
  Native Americans on our basketball teams in the name of diversity?
  I don't think so. Why would skin color, shoe size, or sexual
  orientation matter when shooting a freethrow? And if it doesn't
  matter when shooting a freethrow, then why would it matter when
  tightening bolts on a factory assembly line, or when pouring coffee
  at Starbucks?

  I think when DEI proponents say 'diversity' that's actually
  shorthand for 'social engineering.' They want to fix society's
  discrimination problem, and forced diversity is their proposed way
  to do that. But there's very little rhyme or reason to the proposed
  solution. Not to mention the cost of giving someone an advantage
  because they're Black, or White, or Asian, or gay, or whatever. The
  whole point of working towards a non-discriminatory society is to
  stop treating people by their accidental and mostly irrelevant
  group characteristics, and, instead, treat everyone as an
  individual.

</div>

"The opposite of equity is inequity."

<!--
----------------------------------------------------------------------
-->

<div class="myreply">

  It's true that the opposite of equity is inequity, just as the
  opposite of fair is unfair. But what seems to be wanted by DEI is
  not fairness, as in "everyone plays by the same rules," but rather,
  equity as in, "equal outcomes."

  For example, if SOMEGROUP MEMBERS are 5% of the population, then
  DEI proponents presume that in an 'equitable' society we would
  expect to see 5% of SOMEGROUP MEMBERS distributed proportionally
  throughout the workforce.

  But why this type of distribution should be expected is assumed but
  never explained. Why do we expect all GROUPS to be equally
  proportionally distributed?

  One reason GROUPS might not be equally proportionally distributed
  is because -- statistically speaking -- different groups have
  different strengths and weaknesses.

  Culture, for example, plays a significant part in outcomes (again,
  statistically speaking).

  For example, the usual study time for Asian students an be as high
  as 10 hours per day. Whereas American students study for a whopping
  1-2 hours. Regardless of the percentage of the population, which
  group do you think will do better on knowledge tests?

  Does it follow, then, that if the number of Asian students with
  highly technical and great paying jobs exceeds the proportional
  distribution of American students with highly technical and great
  paying jobs, that that's somehow 'inequitable'? Do we need to fix
  society because when Asian kids grow up they do better then White
  kids?

  These different definitons of 'equity' are often described as the
  difference between "equal opportunity" and "equal outcome".

  Equal opportunity is the very definition of fairness: everyone
  plays by the same rules, every one gets a fair chance. Equal
  outcome, on the other hand, is social engineering writ large.
  Equal outcome adherents basically want to play god; they want
  to fix society to be the way it should be.

  There are several problems with 'equal outcome.' First, not
  everyone agrees there is a problem to be solved. Second, not
  everyone agrees on the best way to fix the problem. And third,
  sometimes the best of intentioned solutions have unforeseen side
  effects resulting in even bigger problems.

</div>

"And the opposite of inclusion is exclusion."


<!--
----------------------------------------------------------------------
-->

<div class="myreply">

  This is the one part that DEI technically gets correct.

  Yes, we do not want to <em>exclude</em> anyone unfairly. But the
  opposite of exclusion (i.e., inclusion), can also be taken to
  extremes, which may be even worse. Exclusion is doing a bad thing
  for bad reasons; over-including is doing a bad thing for good
  reasons, thus blinding ourselves to the harm being down behind a
  patina of moral good.

  For example, as previously mentioned, we don't want to force Asians
  to be included in the NBA just because Asians are proportionally
  underrepresented population-wise.

</div>


"And I don't know a lot of people who think we'd be better off if our
lives had more uniformity, inequity, and exclusion, right?"



<div class="myreply">
  Maybe you should get out more.

  Roughly half of the country voted for the anti-DEI candidate in 2024.

</div>


"But I think part of why people have questions about it, that I
respect, is they're not sure if this is they're worried about
fairness, right?"

"So to me when you talk about some of these policies the idea is to
make sure everybody gets a seat at the table, especially if you know
there have been systematic ways of keeping people from getting a seat
at the table over the years, sometimes based on their race, on their
religion, on their income, on their background, any number of
reasons. Sexuality, right?"

"Like a lot of different reasons, and it's about making sure that what
we do going forward is fair."

<!--
----------------------------------------------------------------------
-->

<div class="myreply">

  Yes, Pete, people have questions because they're worried about
  fairness. If by fairness we mean <em>everyone plays by the same
  rules</em>, then it doesn't seem fair that someone with black skin
  color [to use the American slavery example], who was never ever a
  slave, somehow gets a seat at the table ahead of someone else with
  white skin color, who was never ever a slave owner -- just because
  of their skin color.

  There are not an infinite number of seats at the table. Resources
  are always limited -- time, money, employees. If employers could
  hire everyone, then 'everybody gets a seat at the table.' But
  that's not reality. So we have to make choices. How do we choose?
  Some people feel that using skin color as a criteria is a decidedly
  unfair and hence bad way to choose.

  Given two identically qualified candidates, one White and one
  Black, it would seem <em>more fair</em> to decide between them by
  simply flipping a coin, as opposed to prefering one skin color (or
  race or religion or sexuality or whatever) over another skin color,
  especially when one's skin color is not something one chooses, and
  when one's skin color has nothing to do with the job at hand.

</div>

"And this can be an economic issue, too."

"You look at something like redlining. A lot of homeowners, families
would be homeowners, especially black families, couldn't get homes in
certain neighborhoods where the property value started to go up, so
even if that happened to a family, I don't know 50 years ago, their
kids are living with the consequences of that now because their
family has less wealth because they were kept out of a neighborhood
where property values were growing, right?"

"And so part of it's the idea that some of these things may have
started a long time ago. Maybe nobody alive today is responsible for
some of the injustice that has shaped what it's like to live in this
country right now, but all of us now are responsible for doing
something about it."


<div class="myreply">

Sure, Pete, let's do something about it. But let's not do stupid
things about it.

The English proverb, "Don't cry over spilt milk," was first recorded
in the 17th century.

Today, it seems, DEI not only wants to cry over past spilt milk, it
wants to use past injustices to justify spilling new milk today; as
if spilling new milk today can magically "unspill" the milk already
lost.

No amount of whining or virtue signaling will bring it back. What do
we do instead? Clean it up and move on.

</div>


<!--
----------------------------------------------------------------------
-->













[^1]: Jeff Daniels plays Will McAvoy
https://www.imdb.com/title/tt2289479/characters/nm0001099

[^2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bx62pk3kwf8




