---
title: "Why Trans Rights Are Not Gay"
date: 2025-05-04T16:40:50-07:00
draft: true
---

# Gay rights

Gays wanted to be treated the same. Human being to human being.

If a man can fight and defend his country, then why can't a gay man
fight and defend his country?

If a man and a woman can love each other and engage in a social/legal
contracts (e.g., marriage), then why can't two women or two men do
the same?


# Trans rights

But trans rights are different because trans individuals want to be
treated the same as non-trans individuals, even when it doesn't make
sense.

Context matters.

For example, if you're applying for an accounting job, then it
doesn't matter if you're a man or a woman or a transman or
transwoman, because biological sex is not relevent to the task at
hand. If you can do the job, you can do the job.

On the other hand, when you're competing in sports, then one's
biological sex does matter. That's why today we distinguish between
men's and women's sports.

# When biology matters

The fastest time recorded for a _woman_ in the 100-meter dash is
10.49 seconds, set by Florence Griffith-Joyner of the United States
on July 16, 1988, at the United States Olympic Trials in Indianapolis

According to track meet results databases like Milesplit or
Athletic.net, hundreds of high school _boys_ in the U.S. run 100m
faster than 10.7 seconds every year.

Can high school _boys_ run faster then the fastest woman alive today?

If by faster we mean faster than the current world record (10.49s),
then it's very rare, but a few top U.S. high school boys can come
close or slightly beat it.

That's one example of the biology differences between men and women, or
women and boys.

The adult men's world record of 9.58 seconds, was set by Jamaica's
Usain Bolt in 2009,

Tens of thousands of adult males worldwide are capable of running the
100m faster than the fastest female sprinter in history. The
performance gap is due to physiological differences (muscle mass,
testosterone levels, etc.) that significantly affect sprinting
performance.

What are the differences?


# Differences

## Muscle Mass and Strength


Men generally have:

    40 - 50% more upper-body strength

    20 - 30% more lower-body strength

    Higher proportion of type II fast-twitch muscle fibers, aiding in
    power and speed


## Cardiovascular Capacity

Men typically have:



    Larger hearts and lungs

    Greater stroke volume (blood per heartbeat)

    Higher VO2 max (oxygen consumption capacity)

    More hemoglobin, aiding oxygen transport

These factors enhance aerobic endurance and recovery.

## Skeletal Structure

Men tend to have:



    Longer limbs and larger frames, contributing to stride length and
    mechanical leverage

    Denser and stronger bones, aiding in load-bearing activities

Women are more prone to ACL injuries and stress fractures due to
differences in hip angle, joint structure, and ligament laxity.

## Neuromuscular Efficiency



    Men usually demonstrate faster neural recruitment of muscle
    fibers during explosive movements.

    This contributes to better reaction times and power output in
    activities like sprinting, jumping, or lifting.


## Body Composition



    Men:

        Lower body fat percentage (avg. 10 - 15%)

    Women:

        Higher essential body fat (avg. 20 - 25%) due to reproductive
        biology

Lower fat and higher lean muscle mass in men aid in agility and power
sports.


## Recovery and Fatigue



    Some studies suggest women may recover faster in endurance events
    and be more resistant to fatigue in ultra-distance activities.

    Hormonal fluctuations (e.g., menstrual cycle) can affect
    consistency in performance and training.









